---
category: agency
title: Magic as a Service
description: We build high-performing Nuxt and Vue applications, designed for
  beauty, engineered for performance, and made for humans.
logo:
  light: /assets/enterprise/agencies/full/light/magicasaservice.png
  dark: /assets/enterprise/agencies/full/dark/magicasaservice.png
logoFull: /assets/enterprise/agencies/full/light/magicasaservice.svg
link: https://maas.engineering/
services:
  - Software & SaaS
  - Mobile development
  - UI/UX design
  - Consulting & Code audit
resources:
  - label: Readme Blog
    to: https://maas.engineering/blog
    target: _blank
  - label: Vue Equipment
    to: http://vue.equipment/
    target: _blank
  - to: https://maas.engineering/nuxt
    label: Nuxt Engineering
emailAddress: hello@maas.engineering
phoneNumber: ""
twitter: ""
github: magicasaservice
linkedin: magicasaservice
instagram: magicasaservice
color:
  - "#00ecae"
regions:
  - Europe
  - North America
location: Germany
---

### **Nuxt Development by Magic as a Servic**

With deep expertise in Nuxt and Vue, we build seamless, scalable applications that combine technical precision, elegant design, and intuitive user experiences. From lean MVPs to large-scale digital platforms, we develop ambitious products that solve real problems—with a focus on seamless performance, elegant design, and user-first experiences.

Our work with Maison Margiela, Jil Sander, and SSENSE showcases our ability to craft fast, accessible, and future-proof digital platforms. From custom UI components to SSR and ISR optimisations, we ensure every application is built for beauty, accessibility and performance.

### Our Capabilities

We design and build complete digital products—combining design, engineering, and technical strategy in one team. Whether it's a design system, an e-commerce platform, or a complex interactive experience, we create solutions that are both technically robust and visually compelling. Our process covers everything from discovery and definition to design, development, and deployment.

Using Nuxt as a stable and flexible framework, we create applications that are efficient, scalable, and easy to maintain. Learn more about how we work with Nuxt at [maas.engineering/nuxt](https://maas.engineering/nuxt).
